a day after repelling hundreds of
missiles and drones fired by Iran Israel
is weighing its response and says the
conflict is not over prime minister
Benyamin Netanyahu has met with his War
cabinet observers say ministers favor
retaliating but are divided over when
and how to strike back Iran launched
more than 300 weapons but nearly all
were shot down by Israel the US UK and
Jordan world leaders are urging
restraint on all sides US President Joe
Biden has told Netanyahu Washington will
not participate in any military
retaliation Tran says its assault was
measured and justified in response to an
earlier attack on its Consulate in
Damascus flashes in the sky over
Jerusalem and ion doome in
action this footage shows the
interception of missiles and drones
launched by
Iran after the first ever direct
military attack on Israel from Iranian
territory
concern is growing over a possible
further
escalation Israeli War Cabinet member
Benny Gans made a defiant statement that
did little to elay those
fears this incident is not over we will
build a regional Coalition and collect
the price from Iran in a way and at a
time that suits
US US President Joe Biden reaffirmed
what he called America's Ironclad
commitment to to the security of Israel
but the White House added Biden had told
Netanyahu that the US would not
participate in any Israeli counter
offensive against Iran in tan prover
Iranians took to the streets to
celebrate the wave of strikes against
Israel the elite revolutionary guard
says the overnight assault was a
response to a deadly air strike on the
Iranian Embassy compound in Syria
earlier this month which killed several
of its most senior commanders Iran's to
the United Nations wrote on social media
that its attack on Israel can be deemed
concluded the Iranian foreign minister
made a statement after the attack that
seemed to be aimed at giving assurance
that tan was not looking to escalate the
conflict we notified our brothers in the
region where the United States has
military bases in their countries that
our goal is only to punish the Israeli
regime and that we are not seeking to
Target American bases in the
region but as Israel says its
confrontation with Iran is not over that
may do little to calm fears of a
full-scale regional
War let's go to Jerusalem now where DW
correspondent Aman ISF is standing by
foris Aman good to see you so what has
come out of the Israeli War cabinet
meeting
well not much of anything that answers
the questions that are on the minds of
most Israelis right now and uh the World
At Large for that matter uh there has
been no uh publicized decision about how
exactly Israel is going to respond to
this Iranian response of course this was
a reprisal for the uh Israeli attack um
the attack that they did not claim on
the Damascus Consulate in Syria um where
Iran generals were killed uh that's
important context uh for this but Israel
is trying to decide on a reprisal now
and we didn't get many answers out of
that cabinet meeting what we did get was
a statement from Benny gance that said
uh that Israel was going to retaliate uh
but it was going to do it on its own
terms and on its own time frame uh and
it was going to do it with an
International Coalition now what's
interesting here is that a columnist a
well-respected columnist in Israel said
uh according to sources if that meeting
had been publicized if it had BR been
broadcast on YouTube you would have had
4 million Israelis headed for benan
airport and tell aiv to head out of the
country uh so that's gives you an idea
of the the kind of reprisals that were
being debated there but it seems for now
cooler heads have prevailed all right
but do we have any idea Aman what could
that retaliation look like
then well it could be anything on a
spectrum from a massive attack to knock
out uh Iranian uh nuclear weapons or
budding nuclear uh facilities uh it
could also be something small it could
be another assassination or an attack on
Iranian proxies of course the far right
here um and there is a very far right uh
in the government in Israel uh um Ben
gavier Ben gavier excuse me uh from the
far right uh party is has been calling
for Israel to go berserk uh so it gives
you an idea of what he wants to see
happen but of course the war cabinet
contains not only liud which is
right-wing that's netanyahu's party but
also Centrist uh so uh it seems that
there's still a debate there and we
don't know which side of the spectrum
this reprisal is going to fall on
although they said there will be
something is Israel likely to heed calls
for restraint from the US and
others it seems that they already have
um a 24-hour period that was closely
watched has closed now and it seems that
after a phone call between Netanyahu and
uh US President Joe Biden um instead of
retaliating immediately what Israel did
was call A A U uh un security conference
meeting uh to gather the International
Community around it seems that they're
seeking International legitimacy for
whatever they do next so that is a form
of restraint now the president Isaac
Herzog also said we are acting
restrained we know what the consequences
are um but of course when they say that
they are going to retaliate that puts a
lot of people on high alert uh because
Iran said if there is any retaliation
for this retaliation in other words Iran
wanted it to be over now if there's any
kind of retaliation then they would
strike back even harder with more
missiles more ballistic missiles more
drones and uh maybe even damage Israel
in a way that it hadn't been able to do
in this last
attack 10th times Aman DW correspondent
Aman ISF in Jerusalem for
thanks well leaders of the G7 Nations
have condemned Iran's attack on Israel
in a video meeting called by President
Biden they also urged Iran to exercise
restraint the G7 says it will work to
prevent an uncontrollable Regional
escalation and will seek an immediate
and Lasting ceasefire in
Gaza the UN Secretary General Antonio
gues has warned the International
Community against descending deeper into
conflict speaking at an emergency
session of the UN Security Council he
said the region cannot afford a wider
War it's time to step back from the
brink it's vital to avoid any action
that could lead to major military
confrontations on multiple fronts in the
Middle
East civilians are already bearing the
brunt and paying the highest price and
we have a shared responsibility
to actively engage all parties concerned
to prevent further
escalation let's get some analysis now
Alex vatanka is director of the Iran
program at the Middle East Institute in
Washington DC welcome to DW news so was
this an attack was this attack excuse me
a strategic success for
Iran well yes in away and no yes in the
sense that um they came out after 1 of
April strike by Israel under Damascus
and said they would have to retaliate in
kind meaning because they considered uh
the embassy compound in Damascus to be
Iranian soil they said they would have
to uh strike Israel on its soil and
that's basically what they have tried to
do here although as you have heard uh in
the reports uh that about 99% uh uh of
all those uh missiles and drones were
intercepted
um I do have to point out uh that yes
again in terms of Iran doing this for
the first time they have started a new
chapter in this enmity with Israel uh
but I have to also as an analyst believe
that the way Iran carried this operation
suggests to me that they didn't really
want this to escalate any further this
is what they're saying publicly but
their actions before and also showed
that was the case I mean in any military
operation you don't give days of
advanced warning you don't send off
small uh slow moving drones that give
your enemy uh plenty of time to prepare
so they wanted to make a point they
wanted to strike Israel but they wanted
to make sure the damage was such that
didn't necessarily necessitate an
Israeli retaliation in kind and Iran's
hope right now clearly is that this is
the end of this round and they want to
move
on all right you said it but the Iranian
foreign minister has said the attack was
aimed only at Israel and not at the US
so what does that tell
us well that just tells us the United
States in a pretty uh you know bad
position in a way because he has to
mediate in a in a conflict between an
ally Israel and an opponent called Iran
uh that doesn't really want to even talk
to the United States directly but
nonetheless both Iran and the United
States as as as bizarre as it sounds
have one thing in common neither side
wants to get into a regional conflict
and both sides recognize a simple fact
that Iran Israel conflict will not be
limited to Iran and Israel and
invariably United States very well will
be forced to enter that conflict which
as again we've heard over the weekend
the Biden Administration clearly clearly
is not interested and it's doing
everything he can to prevent
that now with this attack Global
attention has turned away uh from the
war in Gaza so has this helped Israel do
you
think look you know you could you could
say that uh that might turn out to be
the case not not in the short term we've
heard Israeli officials talking about
what is Iran did to them this weekend as
providing Israel with what the Israeli
leaders are calling strategic leverage
and the building of a new international
and Regional Coalition against Iran now
if you do that and if you're success F
in doing that then absolutely this will
be a a win for for Israel in the long
term but it's not going to help them in
the short term in their in their
operations in Gaza and the regional and
international opposition they face in
the way they've carried themselves uh so
far um so there you have
it okay but could Iran's attack on
Israel uh reshape alliances or power at
all in the
region um not in the short term look I
think for example let me give you one
concrete example if this Iranian attack
uh is for example seen by Israel to
reenergize the mood say in the Gulf
States countries like Saudi Arabia to
look at at normalizing relations with
Israel to sort of go back to where they
were before the Gaza crisis then I think
it's way too premature to assume that uh
our public opinion uh is still very much
upset about what's going on in Gaza uh
that doesn't mean they like the Iranian
approach to it Israel at all in fact
we've seen Arab countries very silent
and in some cases in the case of Jordan
actively participating against this
Iranian operation and this is actually a
separate point but a very fundamental
point I do wonder if Iranian leaders now
in tyan need to take a moment and think
about what it is they're seeking to do
with Israel because their enmity towards
Israel is an ideological Mission there
on Iran is not an Arab country Palestine
doesn't need to be an Iranian cause and
the Arab world doesn't want Iran to take
the leadership on this all these are
tough questions the Iranian leaders have
to answer particularly given that
Iranian public opinion is very much
opposed to what Iran is doing in the
region and its position on Israel all
right we don't have a whole lot of time
but briefly if you could what do you
expect to see happening
next I think uh what we've heard so far
from the Israelis clearly is that the
United States is telling them right now
you can call it a win you can call it a
major spectacular military success and
call it a day and move on we'll come
back to Iran but we need to time to
figure it out it's not something we will
do in days or weeks it's a major project
uh and for that reason I think the
Americans would Prevail the Israelis
cannot do this on their own really in a
successful way so they have to wait for
that American uh preparedness to come to
their aid and do whatever it else that
needs to be done in the long term down
the road uh but it won't happen in the
short term thanks Alex Alex vatanka from
the Middle East Institute in Washington
DC for